insite presents in the kitchen with
Jennifer latet foodie brought to you by
the great American Spice Company hi I'm
Jennifer right you're fit booty I'm so
excited to share with you today an
amazing salad that's perfect for spring
or summer it's called a fattoush salad
also known as a Lebanese peasant salad
so easy so fun to make starting out with
just taking one cucumber chopped it up
really small put it in your bowl then we
have a yellow pepper you could use red
or orange whatever flavor you like and
then really pretty Tomatoes I like the
blend of the yellow the red the orange a
few green onions you can also use red
onions if you prefer that
for further red onions and then the most
important ingredient for the salad
portion itself is fresh herbs today we
have a mixture of parsley and mint you
always have to use mint to make it a
fattoush salad but you can add in
cilantro and some other herbs if you
prefer to do that instead of the parsley
and one of the little tips that I
learned recently that I really like is
how to cut herbs so they don't get too
wilty on you so we have some really
pretty mint today is really pretty
parsley I'm just gonna grab them both
together this is called a Sun Dial
technique and you just chop up your
herbs and then once you get a nice chop
we're just gonna sundial so take your
knife just like a sundial and go back
and forth and it gives you that really
nice chopped herb without getting wilty
and that's great
so mints is one of those herbs that can
take a while to get used to so start out
with a small amount of mint let your
taste buds get used to it and soon
enough you will find that you absolutely
love the flavor of mint so we're gonna
mix this around my at my parents my
grandparents actually farmed fresh mint
when I was young so I've always loved
the smell of it and love working with it
so I hope you do too
so we've got our salad and now for the
we're gonna take fresh lemon juice a lot
of it and it's really healthy for a body
it helps create an alkaline existence
and a little bit of olive oil we're
going to pour that in some fresh garlic
has to be fresh it can't be the powdered
a little salt and pepper and then our
star ingredient is called fresh sumac is
this brilliant it kind of reminds them
you have like the Arizona clay colors
this brilliant clay colored spice it's a
dried berry from the Mediterranean they
dry it down and they crush it into the
spice called sumac it's really good for
digestion and it's loaded down with
antioxidants so it's really great for
you it's known as a spice in the
Mediterranean and Greece and Turkey and
Lebanon it's not something that we use a
lot around here but it's something that
we should you can replace your table
salt and pepper with sumac for some
really great flavor and it has a little
bit of a citrus zest to it so it also
goes great with your vinaigrette so
we're gonna mix all these things
together and then we're going to pour
the salad dressing actually half of it
half of it gets poured over the salad
you get messy have fun with it as part
of fun is cooking with your hands smells
delicious fresh lemon without sumac
mixed in if you're a lemon person you
will love this recipe so good with that
fresh mint and then we're gonna throw in
some pita chips so I have a whole wheat
pita chip that you just toast in your
oven you can also buy them in a bag too
many places sell them and then once you
throw in the pita chip you want to take
the reserved dressing and pour over the
pita chip itself so I think this may be
why it's called a peasant salad they
would use day-old bread and make it into
the salad to create a little bit more
substance with the salad itself so you
want to allow the pita chips to kind of
soaked in with this really yummy sumac
vinaigrette
and then from there we simply played it
on a really pretty plate like this and I
love white plates for summer with really
fresh ingredients and we're gonna take a
bite of this really yummy salad mmm it
is so good and it is so fresh one of the
things I'd like to point out about sumac
is this is not a spice that you can buy
at any grocery store
the great American Spice Company is the
place that you have to go to get it if
you want to find the sumac so you can
simply go to Great American spice calm
and pick up this spice on line for a
flat rate of shipping of just $5.99 so
if you also want to get a really good
salt and pepper using this recipe
flat rate shipping all these spices for
just $5.99 by going to the American
spice com
thank you so much enjoy your yummy Pitou
salad I'm Jennifer right remember to
exercise eat and enjoy for more
information on today's recipe visit
American spice calm and be sure to watch
next week for another edition of in the
kitchen with Jennifer the fit foodie